---
layout: post
title: Git Bloggin'
tags: technical
---
##Git Bloggin'##

###06/14/2015###

This week was all about using git and GitHub with the Command Line (also known as a Terminal). What is Command Line? Well, do you remember those old 90s hacker films like "Sneakers" with someone typing commands into a box with a black screen. The Command Line could be viewed as a communication line between the computer and the user. The commands the user types tells the computer what to do. Due to its character-based interface, the Command Line is a powerful lightweight tool for developers. In fact, it is an important part of the git and GitHub experience.

git is an open-source version control system. Open-source means that it is free and available to the community. Its primary function is to help keep code projects of all sizes organized. Since it is not a GUI (Graphic User Interface) platform, it is known for it's speed and efficiency. Not matter what size your project is using git is useful for keeping track of changes. For example, if you're coding something and you want to remove a change you made, you can go through a log of your changes. Keeping things organized also becomes vital when you're working with a team of developers. This is where GitHub comes in handy.

Despite the name similarities, git and GitHub are not the same. GitHub is a social coding platform used by developers--from beginners to experienced. Community is important when you're a programmer because you need to know what is going on in the industry. Also, you can contribute to open-source projects in the process by helping to resolve code issues. GitHub is a great place to store your code because it allows you to collaborate with others. Teams of developers often use the site for projects because it allows them to work on the same project without interfering with someone else's code. You can also keep track on the site of the changes you make by adding the code you've been working using locally to the site. git allows you to push your project updates to GitHub quickly.

As this is only my first week using git, GitHub, and the Command Line together, I know it will take time before using these technologies becomes second-nature. I highly recommend giving them a try if you're interested in programming. You will certainly learn a lot in the process. Also, you'll **git** it eventually!